# -*- mode: text; mode: auto-fill; -*-


Fleshing out the course model
--------------------------------------------------

These are just some stream-of-thought notes; don't take them too
seriously yet.



We should capitalize on external data sources for course and
registration information.  At the same time, it must be possible to
use Syrup without an external source, or in a mixed mode (where some
courses are defined externally and others are ad-hoc).

There will be local variations in the quality of course information.
Possibly some can provide lists of known courses, but not registration
information; others will know students enrolled but may not know
instructors (or vice versa).

So, in fact we have a number of granular external sources, and Syrup
should operate with any combination of them.

* list of terms (but allowing ad-hoc terms);

* list of course codes and titles (not time- or term-related);

* list of offerings (course-code offered in term);

* list of sections (same course offered several times in one term,
  and/or broken up into multiple subgroups. Some reserve courses may
  aggregate some sections, excluding others). Sections are ultimately
  the join-points between instructors and students, so we must handle
  them well;

* cross-listings (equivalent course-codes);

* people (username/identifier, given, surname, email)

* instructor and student relationships (fred teaches FRE233/2009W/01;
  bill takes ESP125/2009W/03).


Rolls-Royce Scenario
--------------------------------------------------

Shelley Smith wants to set up a reserves-site for the course she's
teaching next term. She logs into reserves, clicks on My Courses, and
clicks Add a New Course Site. The form asks her to pick a term (the
current term is the default, all future terms are listed in a
drop-down), and to pick a course. The system suggests the courses she
is currently teaching; but this is for a future term, and she's not
the instructor of record yet, so she picks the code and title from a
drop-down list. 

She doesn't specify any sections, since she won't know that for a few
months yet. The site remains unavailable to students until she does.

Later, she clicks on Invite Students. It asks her to pick the
course-sections she's teaching from a list. It knows her course is
cross-listed; the cross-list sections also appear on the list. 

Once the sections are selected, and she presses Continue, the students
are granted access.

  Variation: staff-assistance
  --------------------------------------------------

  Shelley contacts Ed at the Reserves desk, and tells him she wants to
  put some items on reserve. She's teaching MAC-100, Intro to Macrame,
  section 2, in the upcoming term.

  Ed clicks on Assist, and finds Shelley's in the people-list, and
  selects her. He clicks on Shelley's Courses, then Add New Course,
  and enters the term and picks MAC-100 from the list. He knows the
  section so is able to add that right away. The system alerts him to
  the cross-listed section, and he adds that too.

  The site won't be ready for students until he (or Shelley) activates
  the site later on.

  Shelley gets an email letting her know the site is ready for
  content.

  Data sources
  --------------------------------------------------

  Shelley and Ed logged in against campus LDAP.

  Shelley's current courses and 



Another take
------------------------------------------------------------

Shelley can set up the course well in advance, with a trivial working
title, e.g. "Macrame". It's one of Shelley's courses, but no one else
has access, and it's not associated with any term, etc.

  Instructor:    course-add
  Library-Staff: course-add

Later, when Shelley is ready to open her reserves to her students, she
opens the site and hits Invite. What appears is a list of the course
sections she is teaching:

    MAC-100 section 02 -- Introduction to Macrame (58 members)
    MAC-301 section 01 -- Macrame Advanced Studio (2 members)
    LAB-203 section 01 -- Macrame in Labour Studies (8 members)

She checkmarks the first and last section, and presses Invite.
Automatically, her site is available to her students, but it also gets
a proper title and course number: she is asked to pick either MAC-100
or LAB-203 as the primary identifier for the site; the other becomes
an alias.

Later calls Ed -- she's talked with the instructor of Textiles 101,
and they've agreed to share Shelley's reserves list with the Textiles
class. She cannot add an arbitrary section to the course site. So Ed
opens the site; clicks on Invite; clicks Arbitrary Section; and
specifies the term, course code, and section of the Textiles class.

  Instructor:    course-section-invite
  Library-Staff: course-section-invite-arbitrary

A key point here is that the formal course numbers may not be
selectable until late in the game; until just before the course, a
working title may be all that you have. That's fine. Choosing specific
course sections can be deferred until the registration info is
available.


What about the case where there is no registration data? How do you
make a site available to an unknown audience?

Have controls for "publishing" a site, that is, making it available to
unknown users. A few options:

  * Anyone at all can view the site, even anonymously

  * Any logged-in user can view the site

  * The instructor provides an access key out-of-band. The access key
    auto-invites you into the site. This isn't so bad really.

  * Any logged-in user can request access; the instructor has to grant
    access. This way lies madness.

Scrapping the madness-path, we're left with a reasonable set of
options: Anonymous, Authenticated, AccessKey, Restricted (to members
of the registered list), or NoAccess (for archived sites, etc.). None
of this applies to instructors and their proxies, just to visitors.

  Instructor:    course-change-access
  Library-Staff: course-change-access-extended

  The extended permissions could let the librarian decide if certain
  types of materials in the site should be inaccessible to Anonymous
  users. Or maybe we should just scrap Anonymous access altogether.
